Let's have a closer look at how particles are being picked.
In this example, we are giving a set of eight particles,
each with its specific weight.
These particles are initially grouped in a wheel with
each particle occupying a space depending on its weight.
We can notice that particles one and three
occupy a very small space because of their small weights,
whereas particle four occupies the biggest space because it has the largest weight.
Initially, randomly pick an index from the set of
particles ranging from one to N or in our example, one to eight.
Let's pick the sixth particle as our initial index.
Next, we will initialize a variable called beta and give it an initial value of zero.
Now, we are going to iterate over the set of indexes and for each index,
we will compute a new beta by adding to it any form
random value ranging from zero to two times the largest weight.
In this case, two times w4.
As you can see, the new beta is now equal to the size occupied
by particle six plus half the size occupied by particle seven.
While W index is smaller than beta,
we should subtract the W index from beta and increment the index.
Here, you can see that the size occupied by
particle six is smaller than the size of beta.
So, we subtract w6 from beta and increment our index.
Beta size is now reduced to only half of the size occupied by particle seven,
and the index is now incremented,
and shifted to particle seven.
Now, if beta size becomes smaller than W index size,
we'll have to pick the particle at that index.
Here, you can see that beta is smaller than w7,
therefore, we'll pick the particle seven.
After that, we iterate and compute the new beta.
Note that sometimes, you will pick
the same particle more than once because of its small value.
Now that you've learned the Resampling Pseudo Code,
try to code it with C++.